You did it again. You messed up. You
disappointed your family, your friends,
maybe your boyfriend, your husband, and
most importantly, you disappointed
yourself. You must be such a failure.
Right? If that's what you're thinking,
this video is especially for you. After
today's video, you will gain that inner
freedom. you will know how to move on
from your mistakes, how to learn from
your mistakes, and finally set yourself
free. Hi guys and welcome back to my
channel. My name is Michaela and today
we are going to talk about how you can
forgive yourself. Let's get into this.
First of all, as usual, I want you to
know that mistakes are part of the human
experience. There is no such thing as a
perfect human being, a perfect woman
that never made any mistakes. The most
perfect woman that you see on social
media, the most perfect woman that you
see in real life are the ones that been
through divorced because you have to go
through things. You have to make
mistakes in order to learn from that.
The only difference is how you react
after doing mistakes. how you choose to
deal with the mistakes that you did, how
you choose to move forward or even not.
And the reason why guilt feels so heavy,
why it is constantly on your mind, and
why you feel like you cannot let go,
it's because our brain wants to control.
Our brain wants to be in charge of every
situation. And when we do things that
actually are not aligning with our
values or with how we perceive
ourselves, then our brain wants to
punish us. Our brain wants to put us in
guilt. Our brain is trying to explain
and justify why we acted in a way we
usually wouldn't act. It doesn't make
sense to our brain to not act exactly
how we wish we would act all the time.
So the only logical explanation can be
that we are simply not the person that
we think we are. And then we are stuck
in a loop of shame and guilt and we
simply can't get out of this loop. You
cannot move on when you keep thinking
about how bad you deal with a situation,
how you could have changed that
situation with simply acting in a
different way. And you know why I can
talk about that? Because I made tons of
mistakes and only through my mistakes I
learned to be the version of myself that
I am today. If I would not have been
through a whole phase in my early teen
years, I would never be now in a
position where I could say, "Hey, I
actually feel so sorry for myself. I
gave my body. I gave my virginity. I
gave my youth to men who simply did not
deserve that because I was in a
situation I didn't know it differently.
I would never ever do the same mistakes
today because I know now through my
mistakes I learned and I grew through my
mistakes. I learned I got to understood
that this is not the way that actually
aligns with me. Now if I would be stuck
in guilt and shame over years and years,
I would not be able to move on and I
would not be able to see the mistakes I
did as a learning process. You have to
stop telling yourself that you should
have known it differently one year ago,
one day ago, one week ago because you
always act from that point of knowledge
that you had in that time and you can
never say hey I should have known it
better that time because you simply
didn't. The fact is that you didn't know
better. You didn't know how to deal
better with the situation 1 hour ago,
one year ago, one week ago. you simply
didn't. And the fact of acceptance is
the first step of forgiving yourself.
Accept that it is what it is. You made
mistakes. You disappointed people. You
disappointed yourself. But now you are
not that person anymore. Now you are
looking at it from a different angle.
and you understand, hey, I acted from a
position where I simply did not know
better, which does not excuse it, but it
gives you room to grow. It gives you
room to learn. Another thing I want you
to think about is why you did that in
the first place. Like, it's so easy to
just tell yourself, hey, I'm just a bad
person. That's just how I am. But
obviously, you are not a bad person.
Otherwise you would not feel guilt,
remorse and shameful in the first place.
Instead of simply giving you the stamp
of bad person, ask yourself, hey, why
did I do that in the first place? Think
about a child that is touching in the
fire maybe once, twice, maybe even three
times. And even though it knows already,
hey, this is going to be painful, it
still does it. Would you now tell your
child that it's simply a bad annoying
child because it keeps hurting himself?
You wouldn't. Sometimes we do things
from a place of wanting closeness, from
a place of fear, from a place of trying
to escape. There are so many reasons why
we do things that do not align with who
we truly are. And the next step to
forgiving yourself is to know why you
did the thing in the first place. What
is beyond beneath that act on the
surface? Only then you will know and
understand how to prevent that and how
to not do that again. Let's say you were
being intimate with a person that
actually you did not want to and you
feel guiltful. You feel shameful because
you did that instead of now telling
yourself over and over again that you're
a bad person, that you're not the good
girl that you thought you are, that you
are not good for anything and so on. Ask
yourself, hey baby girl, why did you do
that in the first place? Why did you get
intimate with someone that you actually
did not want to? And answers will come
when you sit with the uncomfort.
Is it that you were craving closeness?
Is it that you didn't want to lose this
person and you thought that that's the
only way how you can stay connected? Is
it that you thought you can get
something out of it? Is it that you
thought you have to do that in order to
be acknowledged? Is it because you
wanted to escape from some emotions that
you feel internally? You wanted to
escape from reality? Is it because you
wanted to seek revenge? Whatever it is,
be very clear with it. When you know,
hey, I did that because I wanted
closeness, then you know where the hole
in yourself is that you need to fill.
What is there that you need to heal?
Another example, let's say you were
lying to your best friend and you did
that many times, but every time you did
it, you felt so bad and you were
wondering, why do I keep doing that? Why
am I such a horrible person? Instead of
blaming yourself, what was the reason
behind that motive? Why did I feel the
need to lie to my friend? Was it because
I didn't want to get rejected? Was it
because I made a mistake before and I
needed to correct it and I didn't feel
confident enough to say, "Hey, I made a
mistake." Be clear with what your motive
was. Be clear with what was beneath the
action. And then again, only then you
will know what to do. Only then you will
know how you can prevent doing that
again. Because you can be the best
person with the best values, you can be
a really good-hearted woman. But at the
same time, if you do not know your
shortcomings, if you do not know your
places where you still need to heal your
wounds, you will always bleed your
wounds on other people. And bleeding
your wounds on other people means
exactly doing things that does not align
with your values. Now, another thing I
want you to be very clear is that
sometimes we feel like we cannot forgive
the other person, but it's always about
you. When you're, for example, going on
dates and you feel like these men are
not taking you seriously, they are
wasting your time. And then you get
angry at those men. Take back your power
and understand you don't need to forgive
those men. You don't need to forgive
that situation. You need to understand
that you're lacking boundaries and you
are the one that you need to forgive.
You need to forgive yourself for not
being clear enough with your boundaries
in the first place. You are the only
person that is in charge of your
reality. And if a person keeps wasting
your time, it's maybe not because the
person keeps wasting your time, but
because you let the person waste your
time. If that makes sense to you, you
need to be clear and also fair to the
other person. Immediately when you know
you're not going in the same direction,
you say, "Listen, I do not want to waste
your time and also I'm respecting my
time. I see we are not aligning. Our
values are not aligning. We're not
heading the same direction. I am leaving
now. Thank you so much for your time."
That's a boundary set. And that way you
stop to blame yourself, feel shameful
afterwards and also stop to blame the
other person because at the end of the
day it's always you who is allowing
people do things with you. People taking
time, energy and resources from you.
It's not the other person literally
forcing you, taking your hand and
staying at the cafe for example or in a
restaurant. Your values sometimes also
create your cage. Sometimes you feel
like you're such a polite and friendly
person, but then you are acting on that
polite and friendliness and it
ultimately makes you do things that make
you resent that person and yourself. The
next thing I want you to do is to
separate yourself from the mistakes you
did. You are not a mistake. You are not
a failure. you are not a bad person. You
made a mistake. You chose the wrong
thing. You made the wrong decision and
so on. And you can simply acknowledge,
hey, I made a mistake. I did the wrong
thing. I put myself in a bad position.
But you don't need to give that one act
your whole identity. You are so much
more than this. And as I said, your
values, your core values can be so good,
but you need to work on your wounds and
heal your wounds and be clear of your
wounds instead of stamping yourself as a
bad person. Now, another thing you can
do in order to forgive yourself is to
make amends with the right person. And I
know it's not always possible. Sometimes
you can't make amends with the person
that you hurt. You can't make amends
with people you disappointed, but you
have to try to. And even if it's just a
message, a voice message, a quick call,
a letter, simply try to make amends and
say, "Hey, listen. I made a mistake. I'm
not expecting from you to forgive me.
I'm not expecting from you anything. I
just want to tell you I made a mistake
and I am deeply sorry about that."
That's it. And if you cannot make the
amends with that person, make it with
yourself. Tell yourself, I made a
mistake. I did the wrong thing. Write it
down on a letter if you can and write
the letter to that person and to
yourself. And then burn the letter or
just rip it into many, many pieces and
throw it away. Sometimes all we need to
do is to be honest with ourselves and
speak it out. Say it out loud. Write it
down. Say, "I made a mistake. I did the
wrong choice." Just because you made a
mistake, you disappointed yourself,
other people, and so on doesn't mean
that you need punishment. What happens
many times is that we make a mistake and
then unconsciously or consciously we are
punishing ourselves for that mistake.
We're punishing ourselves with how we
talk to ourselves and how we look at
life. We think we don't deserve
goodness. We think we don't deserve to
make a lot of money. We don't deserve
real love because we messed up once. We
messed up with our family. We messed up
with our ex. That's why you
unconsciously are sabotaging yourself
and your future. You don't need
punishment to be forgiven. You don't
need punishment to make amends. You
don't need punishment at all. And every
form of making your life more difficult
than it actually is. Is it only within
your thoughts, within your mind or even
with actions? Is self-sabotaging.
You don't need to isolate yourself at
home because you want to punish yourself
and you don't want to disappoint anyone
anymore because you feel like, hey,
every time I'm with someone, I keep
disappointing people. No, you don't need
to starve yourself because you think you
don't deserve to eat well and to take
care of yourself because you did wrong
to other people. You also don't need to
punish yourself in the form of stopping
to date people because you think they're
wasting your time and you don't know how
to set your boundaries. You actually
have to go out more and get yourself in
those same situations in order to learn
to deal with them differently. You
cannot be afraid to ever disappoint
people again because it's going to
happen. You will always disappoint
people in your life willingly or
unwillingly.
It's part of life as long as you're
dealing with other people. And again,
isolating yourself is not the solution
and is a punishment that won't make you
move on from your mistakes. Now, I want
you to also talk to yourself with
compassion. You have to tell yourself, I
know I made a mistake, but I didn't know
better. I know I didn't handle the
situation the right way. I didn't know
better. What can I learn from that? How
can I move on? How can I be a better
version of myself? How can I make amends
for myself? You don't actually need to
make amends for other people. It's
always about you and you need to make
the amends with yourself first. If you
do not make amends with yourself, if
you're not being in the pure with
yourself, in German we say,
then you can also not make amends with
anyone. And you can also not move on.
You have to be with yourself in the
pure. You don't need to be perfect. You
don't need to be never ever making a
mistake again. You need to understand
that forgiveness does not need to be
earned. Forgiveness is a choice to make.
You don't need to be perfect. You need
to be forgiving to yourself and to
others. And ultimately when you are
forgiving to yourself, that's also how
you are with other people. And even
though forgiving does not mean that
you're excusing yourself or others for
misbehaving, nor does it mean to look
away from mistakes and neglecting them.
It simply means to acknowledge that
there has been done a mistake and that
everyone will be making mistakes. That's
part of our human experience. And if
there was no mistakes, there was also no
growth. Anyways guys, I hope this could
help. I hope you know now how you can
stop blaming and guilt tripping yourself
and start forgiving yourself and other
people. Thank you so much for watching.
I love you so so much. And I see you in
my next video. Bye-bye.